# CS340-Client-Server-Development

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?
The ability to write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable although sounds easy continues to improve with experience and practice. The programs written need comments and need to keep functions modular to have the programs maintainable. Making a program readable I feel can almost be an art, using comments to help understand what the code is doing helps but also making use of indenting and whitespace can help break up many lines of code. To have a program be adaptable you need to write functions or methods that are not specific to the program but does do a specific thing. Applying the functions/methods to other programs without having to completely change the code to work with the new program is adaptable programming. This type of programming makes reusing code easier and saves time by you not having to keep reinventing the wheel. The CRUD module created allowed me to use those functions in any project for mongodb. The CRUD functions can be applied to any mongodb database in the future.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
When I approach a problem, I first breakdown the problem into smaller manageable problems and sometimes break these problems down into even smaller ones. I then start with one problem and come up with possible solutions to that problem and keep doing that until solving all the problems. I do not think I approached the project differently but I was better at using this approach from past courses and experiences. One thing I did differently was stay focused on completing a problem I was working on instead of jumping around to other problems when I felt defeated. When I was trying to pass the selected animal's location to the map, I wanted to move on to the graph but I stayed focused to get the map to work first. In the future I will make sure to get the basics working before adding advanced coding. Making sure the database works correctly then add any buttons for filtering or anything the client needs. Then once the table is working correctly, work on other parts that the data passes to in callbacks for example graphs. Also, after making a change, testing to make sure nothing broke that used to work is a good technique to use to make sure you didn’t make a change two hours ago that broke the program. 

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
Computer scientists create a solution or tool and/or solve problems and help other people solve problems. Computer scientists solve a problem or create a tool so other people can complete their job. Working on a project like this allows a company access to information that allows the company to save time on one part in order to use that time in another area. This type of project can give a company a piece of the puzzle to help them achieve their goal. In this case this project allows the company to easily find breeds they need for them to train and ultimately use these dogs to save people.
